NRC FORM 366A U.S. NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION APPROVED BY OMB: NO. 3150.0104(cid:9) EXPIRES: 0913012023
(09-01-2023}
Estimated burden per response to comply with this mandatary collection request: 80 hours. Reported
lesson learned are incorporated into the licensing process and fed back to industry. Send comments
LICENSEE EVENT REPORT (LER) regarding burden estimate to the FOIA, Library, and Information Collections Branch (1-6 MOM), U. S.
Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001, or by email to
CONTINUATION SHEET Infocoltects.Resource@nrc.gov, and the OMB reviewer at. OMB Office of Information and Regulatory
Affairs, (3150-0104 Attn: Oesk Officer for the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, 72517th Street NW,
Washington, DC 20503; email: nun subriiission@simLeasiay. The NRC may not conduct or
(See NUREG-1022, R.3 for instruction and guidance for completing this form sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of Information unless the document
Mo:/www.nrc.govireadi 9-rmidoc-collections1nuregs/staff/sr1022/r3/1 requesting or requiring the collector displays a currently valid OMB control number.
1. FACILITY NAME n 2. DOCKET NUMBER 3. LER NUMBER
Seabrook Station 050 443 YEAR SE NQ UU ME BN ET RIA L R NE OV .
23
052 04 00
NARRATIVE
Description
On July 30, 2023 at 1526 EDT, with Unit 1 in Mode 1 at 100 percent power, the reactor was manually tripped due to low
main turbine EHC [El IS: TG] fluid reservoir level. This alarm was ultimately caused by the separation of the electrical trip
solenoid [EIIS: SOL] from the EHC header dump valve [EMS: PCV], which led to an 80-psig decrease in hydraulic fluid
header pressure. Operators manually tripped the reactor in accordance with procedures based on low EHC reservoir level.
The reactor trip was uncomplicated, with systems responding as expected. The actuation of the EFW [El IS: BA] system
was expected due to steam generator low level. This licensee event report is being reported pursuant to 10 CFR 50/3(a)
(2)(iv)(A) for actuation of the Reactor Protection System and Emergency Feedwater System. In addition, there were no
inoperable Structures, Systems, or Components that contributed to this event.
Cause of the Event
Cap screws on the manifold failed because the equipment manufacturer did not use the parts specified by GE for EHC
system trip manifold assemblies. The trip solenoid and associated sub-components, including the cap screws, were
procured by Fluid Power Products. Metallurgical analysis was performed on the failed cap screws and confirmed the cap
screws were consistent with alternate design ASTM A574 material but had zinc coating which causes low toughness and
absorption of hydrogen into the screws. These incorrect parts were used in the assembly of the trip manifolds. The trip
manifolds are sold as pre-fabricated assemblies along with the cap screws. Based on this, the most probable modes of
failure were determined to be inadequate material and/or over torquing of the cap screws. No safety systems were affected
as a result of this failure.
Safety Significance
There were no safety consequences. This condition had no actual safety consequences impacting plant or public safety.
The EI-IC system interfaces with the Turbine System [EMS: TA] and if EHC fluid pressure decreases enough, then steam
inlet valves [El IS: FCV] to the high and low pressure turbine [BIS: TRB] will be closed, initiating a turbine trip and reactor
trip. This event did not result in a safety system function failure.
Corrective Actions
Completed/Planned
1. Replaced the failed Main Turbine EHC trip manifold assembly with a new assembly ordered directly from GE.
2. Revise model work order for each EHC and Feedwater dump valve assembly to ensure correct cap screws are installed.
3. Replace ASTM A574 zinc plated screws on trip manifold assemblies, including Feedwater and ERG, with cap screws that
comply with GE specifications.
Similar Events
A review of internal and external operating experience did not identify any previous events or conditions that involved the
same underlying cause as this event.
(cid:9) (cid:9) (cid:9)
NRC FORM 366A (09-01-2023) Page 2(cid:9) of 2